intellipaat



--> SSL : secure sockets layer
--> pom.xml : project object management ( used to define dependencies in Maven)
--> What is DevOps?
  DevOps can’t be referred as a tool; it is a collaborative work culture that combines development and operations teams for continuous development, 
continuous testing, continuous integration, continuous deployment, and continuous monitoring.

--> What is the role of AWS in DevOps?
Role in DevOps
Flexible services: AWS provides us with ready-to-use resources for implementation.
Scaling purpose: We can deploy thousands of machines on AWS, depending on the requirement.
Automation: AWS helps us automate tasks using various services.
Security: Using its security options (IAM), we can secure our deployments and builds.

--> What is the difference between continuous deployment and continuous delivery?
in continuous deployment there is some manual intreventions required like manager approvals and where as in continuous delivery it will be automatic.

--> What are the advantages of Docker over virtual machines?
Below are the differences in multiple criteria that show why Docker has advantages over virtual machines.

1.Memory Space – In terms of memory, Docker occupies lesser space than a virtual machine.
2.Boot-up Time – Docker has a shorter boot-up time than a virtual machine.
3.Performance – Docker containers show better performance as they are hosted in a single Docker engine, whereas, performance is unstable if 
	        multiple virtual machines are run.
4.Scaling – Docker is easy to scale up compared to virtual machines.
5.Efficiency – The efficiency of docker is higher, which is an advantage over virtual machines.
6.Portability – Docker doesn’t have the same cross-platform compatibility issues with porting as virtual machines do.
7.Space Allocation – Data volumes can be shared and used repeatedly across multiple containers in Docker, unlike virtual machines that cannot share data volumes.

--> What are the benefits of Ansible?
Ansible is an open-source configuration management tool that helps us in the following:
1.Automating tasks
2.Managing configurations
3.Deploying applications
4.Efficiency

--> What is Ansible galaxy?
Ansible Galaxy is essentially a large public repository of Ansible roles. Roles ship with READMEs detailing the role's use 
and available variables. Galaxy contains a large number of roles that are constantly evolving and increasing.

--> What is Ansible tower?
  Ansible Tower is the enterprise version of Ansible, and it helps organizations and teams scale quickly and effectively. There is a cost associated 
with adopting it, installing it, and getting the software up and running in your environments.

--> core operations of DevOps.
Core operations of DevOps include:

	1.Development
	2.Version Control
	3.Testing
	4.Integration
	5.Deployment
	6.Delivery
	7.Configuration
	8.Monitoring
	9.Feedback

--> Advantages of DevOps
Technical benefits:
	* Continuous software delivery
	* Less complex problems to fix
	* Faster bug resolution

Business benefits:
	* Faster delivery of features for customer satisfaction
	* More stable operating environments
	* More time available to add product value

--> What is the use of SSH?
  SSH stands for Secure Shell and is an administrative protocol that lets users have access and control the 
remote servers over the Internet to work using the command line.

--> Can one consider DevOps as an Agile methodology?
DevOps can be considered as complementary to the Agile methodology but not completely similar.

--> Can you tell me the purpose of SSH?
  SSH is nothing but a secure shell that allows users to login with a secure and encrypted mechanism into remote computers. It is used for encrypted 
communications between two hosts on an unsafe network. It supports tunneling, forwarding TCP, and also transferring files.

--> Can you tell me why I should use Nagios?
To plan for infrastructure upgrades before the outdated systems fail
To respond to issues quickly
To fix problems automatically when detected
To coordinate with the responses from the technical team
To ensure that the organization’s service-level agreements with the clients are being met
To make sure that the IT infrastructure outages have only a minimal effect on the organization’s net income
To monitor the entire infrastructure and business processes

--> What is kubectl?
kubectl is a command-line interface for running commands against Kubernetes clusters

-->  What is Blue/Green Deployment Pattern?
  A blue-green pattern is a type of continuous deployment, application release pattern which focuses on gradually transferring the user traffic from a 
 previously working version of the software or service to an almost identical new release - both versions running on production.
The blue environment would indicate the old version of the application whereas the green environment would be the new version.
The production traffic would be moved gradually from blue to green environment and once it is fully transferred, 
the blue environment is kept on hold just in case of rollback necessity.


* git log --oneline

ansible master and slave concept and ansible playbooks and ad-hock commands